#LyX 1.6.4.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Nutmeg In Python
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Python is an open-source, general purpose, object oriented programming language
 that is gaining popularity as a tool for scientific computing.
 As an interpreted language with robust object model support, Python allows
 a wide variety of programming styles, from line-by-line scripting to abstracted
, reusable library code.
 Though not specifically developed for numerics and scientific computation,
 its strenghts include an emphasis on legibility and ease-of-use, system
 portability, and straightforward access to system libraries.
 Additionally, there is a very stable stack of basic computational tools
 actively developed by the scientific Python community.
 First among the many commonly used tools are: Numpy for n-dimensional arrays;
 Scipy for a wealth of computational code, much of it being a Python layer
 over established, validated libraries such as LAPACK and FFTPACK; and Matplotli
b, which provides interactive and scriptable 2D plotting tools that emulate
 MATLAB plotting.
 All these features provide a convenient computing environment for the developme
nt of modern scientific data processing systems, whose scope may expand
 over time, and whose core functionality typically demand a design covering
 a range from optimized algorithms to complex << complicated? >> data models
 for physical phenomena.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nutmeg has begun a small scale transition from MATLAB to Python, named Nutmeg-Py.
 To date, the membrane from one system to the other lies between voxelwise
 source reconstruction, and statistical post processing and visualization.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
From MATLAB Data To Python Objects
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The workflow for a Nutmeg based analysis that incorporates Python tools
 presents both a design challenge and a technical data translation problem.
 The latter is a solved problem, thanks to code from SciPy enabling I/O
 between Numpy arrays and MATLAB data contained in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

mat
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 files.
 The former allows the use of Python's object model.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nutmeg-Py's core includes very simple data models which, abstractly, have
 immutable data and metadata, have methods to interrogate or transform the
 data in some fashion, and finally can read and write itself on disk without
 loss of precision.
 The TFBeam is an example of such an object, and is the Python analog to
 the MATLAB 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

struct
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 containing a time-frequency reconstruction.
 Modeling the data in this fashion has the advantage of allowing users to
 more easily develop custom scripts and routines to further interrogate
 their results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The toolbox side of Nutmeg-Py currently includes a non-parametric statistical
 testing package, based on << Nichols and Holmes, 2001 >>, including cluster
 level analysis from << Hayasaka and Nichols, 2004 >>.
 Both approaches have been adapted to the five-dimensional space of time-frequen
cy MEG imaging.
 The results are encapsulated in an object oriented manner, as the TimeFreqSnPMR
esults, which stores the generated null distributions, and has methods available
 for creating thresholds and maps based on levels of significance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another common design pattern employed in Nutmeg-Py is the modeling of a
 related set of processing task using a hierarchy of classes.
 This is done by defining a common parent classes that specifies or even
 performs the bulk of the data organization and computation, and then defining
 variations of the task with subclasses that prepare data in task-specific
 ways and inherit the common functionality.
 Nutmeg-Py takes advantage of this pattern in its recreation of Nutmeg's
 non-parametric statistical processing machinery.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Visualization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project to transition Nutmeg into a Python based toolkit has also generated
 a small but powerful visualization effort named Xipy (cross-modality imaging
 in Python), which lies somewhat under the umbrella of the seminal Nipy
 (neuroimaging in Python) project.
 The main ambition of Xipy is to provide a flexible and extensible system
 for displaying brain imagery from various data sources (eg, anatomical
 MR, statistical maps, diffusion tracks) in the same 3D scene (see figure
 X).
 The graphics technology behind most displays in Xipy is Mayavi << ref?
 >>, which is a Python visualization code base which itself uses VTK <<
 ref? >> for all of its graphical heavy lifting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Xipy is in fact totally decoupled from Nutmeg-Py.
 Visualization of results from Nutmeg and Nutmeg-Py within Xipy is enabled
 by a richly featured plugin contained in the Nutmeg-Py package.
 The plugin itself is a custom implementation of comparatively simple, stereotyp
ed overlay and thresholding interfaces.
 In principle, this overlay plugin architecture could be exploited for displayin
g any dataset that can be mapped to a volumetric grid coregistered to an
 underlying image.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

Satoru Hayasaka and Thomas E.
 Nichols, Combining voxel intensity and cluster extent with permutation
 test framework, NeuroImage 23 (2004) 54–63
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset

Thomas E.
 Nichols and Andrew P.
 Holmes, Nonparametric Permutation Tests For Functional Neuroimaging: A
 Primer with Examples, Human Brain Mapping 15 1–25 (2001)
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
